NodeJs: Open source development platform for executing javascript code on sever side

Express:
    Web framework for Node.JS, Provides many important features for web application

    express.Router()
    Creates a new router object. 

Mongoose is a MongoDB object modeling tool designed to work in an asynchronous environment.   

Body Parser:extract the entire body portion of an incoming request stream and exposes it on req.body.

Passport is an authentication middleware for Node that authenticates requests.

Multer is a node.js middleware for handling form-data, which is primarily used for uploading files.

Mongoose is an Object Data Modeling (ODM) library for MongoDB and Node.js. It manages relationships between
            data, provides schema validation, and is used to translate between objects in code and the 
         representation of those objects in MongoDB.

JSON: JSON stands for JavaScript Object Notation. JSON is a lightweight format for storing and transporting 
    data. JSON is often used when data is sent from a server to a web page. JSON is "self-describing" and 
    easy to understand.


res.json : Sends a JSON response. This method sends a response (with the correct content-type) that is the 
            parameter converted to a JSON string using JSON.stringify().
            The parameter can be any JSON type, including object, array, string, Boolean, number, or null, 
            and you can also use it to convert other values to JSON.

Schema refers to the organization of data as a blueprint of how the database is constructed 
    A database schema is a way to logically group objects such as tables, views, stored procedures etc.
     Think of a schema as a container of objects.

    You can assign a user login permissions to a single schema so that the user can only access the objects 
    they are authorized to access.

    Schemas can be created and altered in a database, and users can be granted access to a schema. 
    A schema can be owned by any user, and schema ownership is transferable.


MongoDB is a database that allows you to store documents with a dynamic structure. These documents are saved
 inside a collection. Mongoose is a JavaScript library that allows you to define schemas with strongly typed
  data. Once a schema is defined, Mongoose lets you create a Model based on a specific schema.

dotenv : This package loads environmental variables from a .env  file into Node’s process.env object.
bcrypt : is used to hash user passwords or other sensitive information we don’t want to plainly store in our database.
body-parser : is used to parse incoming data from request bodies such as form data and attaches the parsed value to an object which can then be accessed by an express middleware.
jsonwebtoken : provides a means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties ensuring that the information transferred has not been tampered with by an unauthorized third party, we’ll see exactly how this works later on.
mongoose : is an ODM library for MongoDB, provides features such as schema validation, managing relationships between data, etc…
express : makes it easy to build API’s and server-side applications with Node, providing useful features such as routing, middlewares, etc..
accesscontrol : provides role and attribute-based access control.

We can use now.sh for deployment of node servers




